# Introduction to Postman course notes

## Unit 1 - Introduction to Postman

### Lesson 1 - Welcome

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [ðŸ‘ Say THANK YOU for this course by subscribing to my YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@vdespa?sub_confirmation=1)
* [ðŸ† Become an EXPERT in Postman & API TESTING, without WASTING TIME](https://sendfox.com/lp/m74j2r)

### Lesson 2 - What is Postman?

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- Postman is a tool that allows us to easily work with APIs.
- Postman is used to build HTTP requests that we send to the server running the API.

### Lesson 3 - How to install Postman

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- There are two ways to run Postman: 
   * As a standalone app or 
   * Directly in the browser
- The standalone app is available for Windows, macOS, and Linux.
- Postman on the web works from any browser but you may need to download the Postman Desktop Agent if your requests fail.
- DO NOT use the Google Chrome extension as this is deprecated and no longer updated.

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [Download Postman App](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)
* [Open Postman on the web](https://go.postman.co/build)
* [Postman Desktop Agent (scroll down)](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)

### Lesson 4 - Your first request with Postman

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas

- To use an API you need to read the API documentation. We're using Simple Books API whose documentation can be found in the resources section of this lesson below.
- Work in Postman is organized in Workspaces.
- A status code 200 (or any status like 2XX) indicates that the request was successful.

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [Simple Books API documentation](./simple-books-api.md)


### Lesson 5 - HTTP

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas

- The API we are using uses the HTTPS protocol.
- HTTPS stands for Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol.
- HTTPS ensures that the connection is encrypted.
- All APIs should use HTTPS.
- From our point of view HTTP and HTTPS are the same.
- The HTTP request message will contain: 
   * URL (address)
   * Request method (GET, POST, PUT, ...)
   * Headers (User-Agent: Postman)
   * Body
- The HTTP response message will contain: 
   * Status code (200, 404, 500, ...)
   * Headers
   * Body

### Lesson 6 - Postman collections and variables

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- You can save requests so that you can re-use them later on.
- All requests need to be added to a Postman collection.
- Typically you will have a Postman collection for each API.
- We are storing the base address of the API in a collection variable called `baseUrl`. 
- Our saved baseUrl will be displayed as `{{baseUrl}}` in the address bar.
- Variables allow us to avoid repeating the same information.
- Variables allow us to easily make changes.
- A Postman variable has two states
   * INITIAL VALUE - This will be available to others if you share the collection.
   * CURRENT VALUE - This is private to you and this is the value that Postman uses.


### Lesson 7 - Query parameters

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- JSON is the most popular format that APIs use to send data.
- Query parameters start after the `?` in the URL.
   * example : `{{baseUrl}}/books?type=fiction`
- The format is `key=value`
- Muliple query parameters are delimited in the URL with an `&`. 
   * example: `foo=1&bar=2`
- Depending on the API, some query parameters can be optional or mandatory.
- A response status 400 indicates an issue with the request data.
- You can enable and disable parameters by clicking the checkbox associated with each key-value pair.

### Lesson 8 - Assignment
- Study the API documentation and use the `limit` query parameter in the `/books` endpoint.
- Try out different values.
- Can you make the API return a status code 400?


### Lesson 9 - Path variables

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- `:bookId` is a path variable in the URL.
- This endpoint allows us to specify a value that changes all the time, depending on the book.
- `:bookId` is just a placeholder and does not get sent.
- You can use path variables in combination with query parameters (if the API accepts this).


### Lesson 10 - POST request / API Authentication

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- A `POST` request allows you to send data in the request body.
- The endpoint for submitting orders requires authentication.
- Some APIs/endpoints are public and require no authentication.
- Other APIs/endpoints are private and require authentication.
- An access token is temporary password generated by the API.
- To send JSON, select the POST request method and from the Body select `Raw` and from the list `JSON`.

### Lesson 11 - JSON format

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- You need to specify valid JSON, otherwise the server won't understand your request.
- Use double-quotes `""` for strings, separate key-value pairs with a comma sign `,`
- Numbers, booleans don't need to be between quotes.
- Postman will indicate when your JSON is invalid.


### Lesson 12 - Assignment

- Create the POST request to order a book.
- Try ordering a book that is not in stock.

### Lesson 13 - Random test data

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- You can use a special type of Postman variable to generate random data
   * example: `{{$randomFullName}}`
- To inspect the request body you can use the Postman console.

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [Dynamic variables in Postman](https://postman-quick-reference-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/dynamic-variables.html)

### Lesson 14 - Is Postman the right tool for me?

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- Postman is a tool for dealing with APIs.
- Postman cannot work with User Interfaces, click buttons and fill out forms.
- Postman is not a performance testing tool.
- Postman can be used for security testing but has not been designed for this purpose.

### Lesson 15 - Viewing existing orders

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- Using the GET request method on the `orders` endpoint will give us a list of orders.
- Using the POST request method on the same endpoint will let us create a new order.

### Lesson 16 - Assignment

- Look at the API documentation and identify the endpoint that would allow you to see a single order.

### Lesson 17 - PATCH request

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- A `PATCH` request is typically used for updating existing data.
- A `PATCH` usually does a partial update, by changing only some of the properties.

### Lesson 18 - DELETE request

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- A `DELETE` request is used for deleting data.
- If you try to get the same data with a `GET` request, you will get a `404 Not Found` status code.

## Unit 2 - Test automation with Postman

### Lesson 19 - Introduction to test automation

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas

- In this second part of the course, our goal is to automate testing of the API.
- So far, we have done manual testing but we want to write API tests to avoid having to manually re-test the API

### Lesson 20 - Your first API tests

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- We are looking at the response to understand if the API is working properly.
- With API tests we want to avoid manually re-testing the API.
- Tests in Postman are written in JavaScript.
- Tests are executed ONLY after the response has arrived from the API.
- Postman uses an assertion library called Chai.js
- Testing the response status code is one of the easiest tests you can write.
- When writing tests, we want to make sure the tests fail.
- To make the assertions on a JSON response, you first need to parse it.
- To see the contents of a JavaScript variable you can use `console.log()`
- To get a property of an object, you can use this syntax: `someobject.someproperty`
   * alternative syntax: `someobject["someproperty"]`

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [Introduction to JavaScript for Postman (full course for FREE)](https://youtu.be/juuhb3W8xT4) 
* [Chai Assertion Library](https://www.chaijs.com/api/bdd/)
* [Make Sure Your Tests Fail, Valentin Despa | Postman Galaxy 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a7G8Yrb5qWU)

### Lesson 21 - Assignment
- Add tests for all the requests in the collection that verify the status code.

### Lesson 22 - Postman variables

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas 
- Postman variables are fundamental to automating testing of the API.
- Postman environments (environment variables) are good if you have multiple testing environments (localhost, testing, production)
- Postman collection variables are saved in the collection.
- Postman global variables are available to all collection in a workspace.
- We use Postman global variables as the data we save is not that important after the execution has stopped.

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

- [Demystifying Postman Variables: HOW and WHEN to use Different Variable Scopes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1GOZh3ZITZU)
- [How to set up different URLs in Postman using environment variables](https://youtu.be/HiIJbmjeTPU)

### Lesson 23 - Extracting data from the response

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas

- Having hardcoded values in requests can make the API tests fail if the data changes.
- We are using the filter function available on all arrays to remove the books that are not available.
- Always use `console.log()` to view the data you are trying to set as a variable.

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [Array.prototype.filter()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter)

### Lesson 24 - Assignment
- Test that the book extracted from the response is of type `non-fiction`
- Ensure that the test fails.

### Lesson 25 - Assignment
- Use the Postman global variable `bookId` in the requests "Get single book" and "Order book".
- Write a test that verifies the stock is >0
   * use this assertion as a starting point: `pm.expect(1).to.be.above(2)`

### Lesson 26 - Collection runner

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas

- The Collection runner is a built-in functionality of Postman.
- The Collection runner allows you to execute the entire collection with just one click.
- Make sure to check (:white_check_mark:) the "Save response" box as this will allow you to inspect the response body.

### Lesson 27 - Request execution order

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- If you run a Postman collection, the default order is as you have it in the collection.
- In the video, `postman.setNextRequest()` is used to change the order of execution. However, this method is now deprecated.
- The correct way to set the next request is by using `pm.execution.setNextRequest()` instead.
- If you wish to stop the execution prematurely, you can do so by running `pm.execution.setNextRequest(null)`.

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [Advanced workflows (request chaining) with Postman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWYKOR0Zj28)

### Lesson 28 - Postman monitors

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- Creating a Postman monitor ensures that you can run a Postman collection according to a pre-defined schedule.
- Running the collection will be handled by Postman on their infrastructure, you don't need to keep Postman open.
- If you are not familiar with continuous integration servers like Jenkins, GitLab CI or TeamCity, this is a quick and easy way to access a Postman collection.
- The API needs to be accessible from any network.

### Lesson 29 - Newman

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- Newman is a CLI tool that can take a Postman collection, run all the tests and generate a report at the end.
- Newman does not have an interface, you need to work with it from the terminal.
- Often Newman is installed on an integration server like Jenkins, GitLab CI or TeamCity.
- To run Newman on your computer, you need to have Node.js installed.
   * you can download Node.js from https://nodejs.org/ (download the LTS version)
- To install newman, run the command: `npm install -g newman`
- Check if newman is install with: `newman --version`
- There are three ways to access a collection from Newman:
   * Export the collection as a JSON file.
   * Share with a public link.
   * Use the Postman API to get the collection.


#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [Postman API](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/631643/JsLs/?version=latest)
* [Newman Support](https://learning.postman.com/docs/running-collections/using-newman-cli/command-line-integration-with-newman/)

### Lesson 30 - HTML reports with Newman

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- htmlextra is the most popular reporter in the Postman community

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [htmlextra reporter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/newman-reporter-htmlextra)
* [Postman / Newman: Create better HTML reports](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EkrNGZxT0_k)


### Lesson 31 - CI/CD overview

#### ðŸ’¡ - Main ideas
- Newman is particularly useful when you integrate it with a CI server.

#### ðŸ“š - Resources

* [Newman Jenkins Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ar4-O3vNiM)
* [Newman GitLab CI Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H0WiDqhDIOs)
